affliction; the way we say “Allah” is different than the way we say “Allah” when we have money in our
pocket.
Assume you are in a ship. (This is a Turkish folk story.) In the Northern habitats of Turkey, a
fisherman is in his boat, far off from land. There is a great storm, and the wind is blowing. He cries out,
“Oh Allah, if you help me, I will donate all this catch to the poor.” So Allah reduces the wind a little bit and
the fisherman sees the ship is not going to sink, so he says “Oh Allah, I’ll give 50% of my catch to the
poor.” And the winds subside down to 25% and as he lands safely, he says, “Oh Allah, I will cheat you, so
don’t believe me.”
Why can’t we praise Allah all the time? Allah says He will test you once or twice a year. Allah
will squeeze a little bit, less money, more trouble, or perhaps you will be given more. In both cases we
should be the same. If we keep praising Allah the same way, after a couple of tests, everything will go
smoothly. Insha’Allah. So this is Sufism the way I see it. In the United States, Sufism is in the books, in the
words, in the mouth. Back home, it is not in the words, it is in the heart and in the actions.
Origins of Sufism
Sufism started with Adam (a.s.). Allah taught him how to do [[gls:zikr|zikr]] and how to go back to the
beloved stage of once he was part.
Sufism started long before Muhammed (a.s.) appeared on earth. Of course, Sufism, as I said in my
introduction, has always been based on Prophet Muhammed (a.s.). Before Muhammed (a.s.) Sufism was
known as Gnosticism in Christianity, and Kabala in Judaism. Isa or Jesus (a.s.) was Sufi. Allah also tried
to teach Sufism to Prophet Moses (a.s.) and from there in the Kabala. He carried the tradition with
Muhammed (a.s.) and when our Prophet (a.s.) went to miraj and Allah asked, “What do you want from
Me?’ The Prophet (a.s.) answered three times “My umma”. By this he meant ‘the love state you have
brought me, please grant this to my umma (people) too. I am your habbib (your beloved) and I would like
to grant this to my people too because I don’t want to be without them. How can I leave them and come
here while they are there? I cannot accept this. You entrusted those people to me and I have to be together
with them’. Well, Allah agreed and taught him how his umma can also go into this beloved state.
Then Hz. Ali (r.a.), asked the Prophet (a.s.) what is there today? The Prophet (a.s.) said there are
blessings today. Allah descended His knowledge here. So Hz. Ali (r.a.) wanted to know what was the
shortest way to Allah, to His path. The Prophet (a.s.) said that it is the path of love and zikr and then taught
him how to do zikr as Jibriel (a.s.) taught or showed him how to make zikr. When I say taught him, the
fundamentalists or the Sunnis object. They say, “How can Arch Angel Jibriel (a.s.) teach anything to our
Prophet (a.s.)?” Well, the angel showed him how to do zikr. When someone shows you something and you
learn from that then it is a teaching. He showed him by saying this “La illaha illallah” three times. Then
Hz. Abu Bakr later asked and the Prophet (a.s.) showed him. That is why the Naqshis do silent zikr.
All the tariqas, except the Naqshis, come from Hz. Ali (mainly the Qadiri Rifa’i, and the last
tariqa, the Ansari Tariqa). This knowledge comes from Hz. Ali via Abdul Qadir Geylani and Ahmed er
Rifai. Allah many times mentions zikr in the Quran-i-Kerim. Some people, wahabis and others, will
question, “Who is the shaykh? There is no Tariqa. This is bida (starting something new). During the time of
the Prophet (a.s.) there was no Tariqa. There was no Shaykh.” Well, the Prophet (a.s.) was the Shaykh. But
then he appointed Hz. Ali as the Shaykh, with no doubt. Witnessed. He took his hand and said to his
people, “As I am your Mevla, Ali is your Mevla too, I am the building of knowledge, Ali is the door. This
is written in the Hadiths.
The word ‘Sufi’ came from the homeless people who were at the Prophet’s (a.s.) Mosque (they
were homeless because they stayed near the Prophet (a.s.) at all times, living under the verandah of the
mosque and writing down whatever he was teaching). They were dressed in wool and they were called ahl’i
suffa (suf means wool). There were forty of these people and Allah’s Prophet (a.s.) assigned Hz. Ali (r.a) to
lead them and to teach them Sufism, the path of zikr. So, from there on it has been carried on down to you.
Now you are getting the connection, it’s a link. It’s the rope of Allah. The rope of Allah is Quran and
Sufism. You are one link in this rope of Allah. Just hold on tight
