Shaykh Taner Ansari

Surrender does not just happen once. You have to surrender throughout your lifetime. You have to surrender, be consistent in surrendering, and insist on surrendering. This will bring you closer to Allah.

In order to follow the path of the heart, you have to walk through the terrain of the nafs.

Living for Allah is harder than dying for Allah.

When we overlook the presence of Allah in every action, we begin to think that all the power belongs to us.

Because you are incomplete, you have an identity. If you were complete you would have no identity.

The goal of Sufism is to unite your purpose with Allah’s purpose, to unite your existence with Allah’s existence, to unite your love with Allah’s love. Everything needs to be aligned. When you start doing this, then the purpose becomes one. We call this tawhid, oneness.

Intention is the springboard of surrender, the inner aspect which gives meaning to outer deeds.

Zikr is the knots on the rope to Allah that you hold onto tightly, so that your hands, your connection to Allah, will not slip.

The universe is a manifestation of Allah’s mercy and love. To know this is to see that everything, even our struggles, is designed to bring us closer to Him.

You have to get your nafs out of the way. It is obscuring you through your bias toward yourself. That is why you do not want to see the truth.

Love is the chemistry where you and I are dissolved. Love is the chemical in which your impurities are dissolved and the gold within yourself is left glowing.

The point of Sufi training is not to gain in spirituality, but to realize one’s nonexistence and thus to better know, praise, and serve the One Who exists.

The beginning of every action is ‘niyyat’ - intention. Then you have to make an effort, this is a step to Allah. When you take this step, it is proof of your intention in the physical world.

The intensity to the decree of Allah is in direct proportion with one’s attachment to one’s nafs.

Sufism is learning to love Allah. Sufism is sure knowledge. By purifying your nafs, you attain Allah.

When nafs meet nafs, there is a fight. When hearts meet hearts, there is love.

The whole life that you are going through - every day, every week, every year - is all an exercise, an opportunity for you to have a connection to Allah.

Allah is part of our lives. We cannot avoid this and we cannot close our eyes to it. When we forget Allah, then we make mistakes.

Sufism is a science of how to be in love with Allah.

The time to give thanks is especially when you receive a favor. Gratitude should not be expressed by words alone, it should be reflected in your being and your actions. Whenever possible, share your blessings with those less fortunate.

The goal is not to be special, the goal is to be real.

Religion is a Science. It becomes Mysticism when you do not understand what you are doing.
