Shaykha Muzeyyen Ansari

Patience and tolerance with kindness should be our way of living with our fellow human beings and with the world.

The goal of a true teacher is to point to Allah at all times, not to him/herself. We should also remember that, as dervishes, our job is also to praise Allah and be with Allah, not with ourselves.

For Allah's sake, you (should) intend to be a better person, so you also create positive energy for yourself when you think of Allah's pleasure and are soft and kind.

When Allah wants us to do things, we will be happier if we just hang in there. The art of living is through connection.

Contemplate which Divine Name is being manifested in a particular event or relationship. Learning Allah through Allah’s manifestations will help you develop your heart connection to Allah. And that changes you.

Allah gave us this personality and this nafs and created us like this. On the other hand, we have to give up the nafs and identity, slowly cooking along the way, so we can permanently be with Allah.

Aqim al Salat is your journey to your heart.

We often think that as human beings, we do not have a choice. And sometimes we are in different parts of our lives and you say I do not have any choice but to do this. Or I felt cornered. You felt like I did not have any good choices to choose from. How does this relate to your relationship with Allah?

You might ask, what is so special about Ka’aba that creates this much inspiration. The answer was, this is where Allah chose to emanate Allah’s Light from. And Allah ordered Hazreti Ibrahim to establish this House for Allah, and many Prophets’ hands have touched it and many believers’ hands have touched it. And when people go there, when we go there, we are going to Allah’s House where, obviously everywhere belongs to Allah, but this is where Allah hugs us and houses us for a time. So, our days with Allah, Umrah, Haj, in every which way, is our time with Allah as well.

We have limited time on this earth because this is how Allah has made our lives to be. During this time, we have to realise the necessity and urgency of connecting and staying connected to Allah.

Ramadan is Allah’s invitation to us, to put Allah first.

Do everything with Taqwa, and do everything with mindfulness. Do not let your relationship with Allah become stagnant — meaning it is no longer alive. It is about having a live connection to Allah.

Hearts fly to Allah with love. Our path is love. One of the reasons for this is that not only is there no force or coercion, but love is also the shortest way to Allah.

As we keep doing our zikrs and breaking the boxes that our minds have been conditioned by society and culture, and stay in the heart language, and as that gets stronger, then our relationship to our best self gets stronger.

Staying positive for a Sufi does not mean you are happy. It means you are connected. Because that is the most positive action you can take. Positivity for a Sufi is not a state of mind. It is a state of action and that action says, “I am choosing Allah,” and it is not me but it is Allah Who can do something about this. I do not have any power.

Aqim al-wuddah is to establish unconditional love that gives hope. This is being in love with Allah, or living in love with Allah.

Our goal, and the purpose of our creation, is to go back to Allah, to go back to our Homeland. And that is a testing ground, to see how much closeness we can gain to Allah in this world, so it will help us in the next step of our journey.

We are connected to everything because our very being, our basic atoms are the same physically, and then spiritually we are connected to all universes, and especially of course to Allah.

Taqwa is Allah’s consciousness… It can bring you, insha Allah, to tawakkul, putting your trust in Allah.

Allah did not create us so that He would not have a relationship or connection with us. Allah wants to have a relationship with us. He wants to be known.

WE COME INTO THE WORLD WITH TWO THINGS, CHOICE AND THE POWER OF INTENTION. WE CHOOSE ALLAH AS SUFIS, AND WE INTEND TO BE WITH ALLAH IN THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.

Our nafs [ego] makes us busy with other human beings, whether out of fear or out of love. So, if we see that somebody is doing something wrong, turn to Allah, pray for them so that Allah changes their heart, and they do better. And if somebody is your enemy, pray harder for them so that Allah guides them.

Avoid any kind of polarization, and see everyone as human beings in different journeys to Allah.

When you are doing Allah’s work, you are with Allah. When you feel love for Allah, you are with Allah. The rest of the time Allah is with you.

When you are connected to everything and in everything, if you choose to connect through your nafs [self; ego], it becomes an ‘attachment.’ If you choose to connect through your heart, it becomes a connection. Ya Allah!

If you just add on with intention, attention and gratefulness — hanging on to Allah’s rope — it will never let us go.

Worldly life is limited; it has a timer on it. Love in our heart is our infinite being.

Everything does zikr of Allah, knowingly and unknowingly. Everything prostrates to Allah, knowingly and unknowingly. In nature, with animals, there is a surrender. They do exactly what they were created to do.

Our journey is from Light to Light. And in this, your helpers are the Qur’an, the prophets, your heart (your connection to Allah) and your zikrs to cleanse the heart.

We need our nafs. It helps us get to Allah. It gives us that bigger jihad.

Love has to have a place to exist. And that structure is the human body and human heart. That is how it is in this world. And the chemistry of love exists everywhere in this world.

It is this little shift from our nafs to our heart. That gap is going to be jumped with intention.

Do not hate anybody or anything. Everybody has their jobs, and they give us an opportunity.

Your rabita is there to always guide your learning about how to get closer to Allah.

This world is about being a shahid. When we witness Allah, He is with us in that moment, because we are experiencing His name, Al Shahid. Every time you observe or learn, Allah is with you.

When you are with others, you will face problems. When you are by yourself, you will face a different set of problems — and still be unhappy. True happiness is only in being with Allah.

Please pray for world leaders to do good for humanity.

If you want to get more out of anything, start with intention.

When you look at the sea, you not only see the sea, you see Allah’s power. When you look at the forest, you not only see the beauty, you see Allah’s Hayy, Allah’s Razzaq, Rahman, Rahim. Allah’s Most Beautiful Names help you stay connected.

There is no choosing the mind over the heart or the heart over the mind. True guidance from Allah brings them into unity.

